W-19718993-migration-guide (#824)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: cloudhub/modules/ROOT/pages/ch-ch2-migration-configuration.adoc

= CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 Migration Configuration

Migrate your CloudHub configurations to CloudHub 2.0 by following critical steps, handling customizations, and ensuring all configuration dependencies resolve correctly. This process reduces risks and keeps your systems compliant and efficient.

== Understand the Differences	

Identify critical architectural differences and configuration gaps between ClouHub and CloudHub 2.0. Review deployment models and environmental dependencies that affect custom configurations. Use this information to accurately scope the migration effort and reduce incompatibility risk during upgrade planning.

=== Infrastructure and Networking Differences

.Architecture
[%collapsible,opts=hide-details]
====

[cols="1,1",options="header"]
|===
|CloudHub
|CloudHub 2.0 

|The CloudHub architecture includes two major components, the Anypoint Platform services, and the worker cloud.
|The CloudHub 2.0 architecture includes two major components, the Anypoint Platform services, and shared global regions.

|image:architecture-diagram.png[]
|image:ch2-architecture.png[]

> |===

Reviewer: It wasn't clear to me how the second drawing matched up to the words above it. I expected to see global regions on the right side of the drawing, but the drawing is the same as the one on the left. There are a few differences in components, but that doesn't stand out. Where are the global regions represented in the drawing?

* `shard`: is a six-digit value associated with the space (private or shared) the app is deployed to.

|The DLB supports a maximum HTTP POST (payload) size of 200 MB.
|The maximum HTTP request size is 1 GB.
|===

====

.Mule Runtime Versions
[%collapsible,opts=hide-details,width=100%]
====

[cols="1,1",options="header,spread,autowidth"]
|===
|CloudHub
|CloudHub 2.0 

|Mule runtime 3.9.x and later.
|Mule runtime 4.3.0 and later.
|===

====

.vCore Sizes
[%collapsible,opts=hide-details,width=100%]
====

[cols="1,1",options="header,spread,autowidth"]
|===
|CloudHub
|CloudHub 2.0 

|See xref:cloudhub::cloudhub-architecture#cloudhub-workers[CloudHub Workers].
|See xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-architecture#cloudhub-2-replicas[CloudHub 2.0 Replicas].
|===

CloudHub 2.0 provides a more granular resource capacity for applications. You can assign specific vCore increments (including 0.5, 1.5, 2.5, 3, 3.5, and 4). This granularity helps match processing needs precisely and avoids forcing a jump from 0.2 to 1 vCores. 
Replicas with fewer than 1.0 vCores offer limited CPU and I/O suitable for smaller workloads, while those with one or more vCores provide performance consistency.
====

> .Worker Vs. Replica

Reviewer: I wasn't able to find definitive guidance, but wonder if using Vs. spelled out as Versus would be better for L10N? NotebookLM said it finds internal versions of this, and I do see it in docs.mulesoft.com as vs. (lower case) in titles. I'd suggest using lowercase for consistency if you keep it abbreviated.

[%collapsible,opts=hide-details]
====

[cols="1,1",options="header"]
|===
|CloudHub
|CloudHub 2.0 

|A worker in CloudHub is a dedicated Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) virtual machine instance that runs your Mule application. It functions as a full, independent virtual server with its own operating system, memory, CPU resources, and isolated runtime environment.
|A replica in CloudHub 2.0 is a dedicated, containerized instance of Mule runtime engine that runs your integration application. Each replica provides complete isolation between applications with its own isolated environment, allocated memory (heap and total), CPU resources (vCores), and storage capacity.

|If you select *Automatically restart application when not responding*, CloudHub monitors the worker and automatically restarts the application if necessary.
|CloudHub 2.0 monitors all applications and restarts them automatically if necessary. Mule applications recover without your intervention. Application crash recovery is enabled by default.

|image:worker-logical-rep.png[Diagram showing the logic of a worker]
|image:replica-logical-rep.png[Diagram showing the logic of a replica]

> |===

Reviewer: I love these images, but they are so small in the table in the expander and don't size, so they become unreadable, even on a large screen. It looks like there is room in the images to increase the text size a point or two. I suggest playing around with that to see, or perhaps you can link to another topic that has these images if there are any.

CloudHub 2.0 supports Mule runtime versions 4.3.x and later. Upgrade to a supported Mule runtime version.

=== Update the Mule Application Code	

* Update the application's `pom.xml` with CloudHub 2.0 deployment configuration. See xref:mule-runtime::deploy-to-cloudhub-2.adoc[Deploy to CloudHub 2.0].
* Update the application's `log4j2.xml` with log forwarding options if needed. See xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-integrate-log-system.adoc[Integrate with Your Logging System Using Log4j].
* Remove persistent queues and implement AnypointMQ.
* Remove CloudHub Connector and replace with custom logic.

=== Deploy your Application

* Publish your application to xref:exchange::index.adoc[Anypoint Exchange].
* Deploy your application to your CloudHub 2.0 private space. See xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-deploy-private-space.adoc[Deploy to a Private Space].
* Configure required egress firewall rules to access other Mule services, such as API Manager, ObjectStore, and Anypoint MQ. See xref:cloudhub-2::ps-config-app-level-egress.adoc#apply-application-level-egress-rules-when-deploying-your-applications[Configure an Application-Level Egress].
* Update CI/CD scripts to support the two-step deployment process.

> === Understand CloudHub 2.0 Limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Review CloudHub 2.0 Limitations
```

Reviewer: Review is a strong action verb, which is recommended for titles.

= CloudHub to CloudHub 2.0 Migration Configuration

> Migrating CloudHub configurations to CloudHub 2.0 requires you to implement critical steps, handle unique customizations, and make sure that all configuration dependencies resolve correctly. This process minimizes risks and keeps your systems compliant and efficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To migrate CloudHub configurations to CloudHub 2.0, implement critical steps, handle unique customizations, and resolve all configuration dependencies. This process minimizes risks and keeps your systems compliant and efficient.
```

== Understand the Differences	

Identify critical architectural differences and configuration gaps between ClouHub and CloudHub 2.0. This comparison enables accurate planning for your custom migration case. 
Review core differences in deployment models and environmental dependencies that directly affect your unique, customized configurations. 
Use this essential comparative knowledge to scope your migration effort precisely and mitigate the risk of incompatibility during upgrade planning.

> 

Reviewer: Here is NotebookLM's suggestion for making the previous three lines more concise and clear according to our standards:
Identify architectural differences and configuration gaps between ClouHub and CloudHub 2.0. Review deployment models and environmental dependencies that affect custom configurations. Use this information to accurately scope the migration effort and reduce incompatibility risk during upgrade planning.
